I've been experiencing cognitive exhaustion these last couple of days. I'm familiar with this feeling of being mentally cluttered and fatigued; this feeling often arises when I'm striving for some vague goal without a structured system of 'to-dos' in place. This afternoon feels different. I think it's because I've been doing nothing for the past hour — or maybe it's just the post-workout endorphins kicking in. Either way, I haven't felt this sort of quiet joy in awhile. I'm just sat by my window, soaking in a generous amount of sunlight and enjoying the rare view of mountains in the distance (a view often obscured by Hong Kong humidity). The view from my room is of a nice little park next to the sea. The park is bustling with people: families having picnics, kids flying kites or riding their tiny bicycles, a trio of friends doing some intense boxing training, amateurs trying their hand at fishing, a group of tiny dogs having a yapping contest (I hope the new government-mandated rule prohibiting public gatherings of more than a group of 4 applies to non-humans). There are a dozen tents spread out over the grass. It's a manifestation of an age-old Asian dilemma of wanting to enjoy the gorgeous weather outdoors while avoiding direct contact with sunlight. My mum fully embodies this, having just gone out with every patch of skin fully covered despite her complaints of how hot it was today.

The view inside my house is just as fulfilling. I've come to realise that I love the sight of billowing curtains. It reminds me of idyllic summer days. Other sensations also add to this image: the smell of fresh laundry, the warmth of sunlight accompanied by the occasional breeze, the soft guitar playing in the background, the sound of chirping and barking, the aftertaste of matcha and strawberries in my mouth... I should really do nothing more often. I'm not sure how to describe this but it adds some softness to my day. So does writing, I think writing is good for me.
